---
path: "E:\\Documents\\drb\\book_1\\png\\1021.png"
input_tokens: 2270
output_tokens: 948
elapsed_time_s: 19.92568450000137
approx_cost_usd: 0.02103
manual_edit: false
---
chance to him, as also to the other seuen husbandes, that <sup>13</sup>went in vnto her. <sup>14</sup>And when they had prepared the pitte, Raguel returning to his wife, sayd to her: Send one of thy handmaydes, and let her see if he be dead, that I may burie <sup>15</sup>him before it be day. <sup>16</sup>But she sent one of her handmaydes, who going into the chamber, found them safe and sound, sleeping both together. <sup>17</sup>And returning she brought good tydings: and they blessed our Lord, to witte, Raguel & Anna his wife, <sup>18</sup>and sayd: We blesse thee Lord God of Israel, because it hath not chanced as we thought. <sup>19</sup>For thou hast done thy mercie with vs, & hast excluded from vs the enemie, that persecuted vs. <sup>20</sup>And thou hast taken pitie vpon two the only children. Make them Lord blesse thee more fully: and to offer vp to thee a sacrifice of thy prayse, and of their health, that al nations may know, that thou art God onlie in al the earth. <sup>21</sup>And forthwith Raguel commanded his seruantes, that they should fil vp the pitte, which they had made, before it were day. <sup>22</sup>And he bad his wife make readie a feast, and prepare al thinges, that for victuals were necessarie to them that goe a iourney <sup>23</sup>He caused also two fatte kyne, and foure weathers to be killed, and great chere to be prepared for al his neighbours, <sup>24</sup>and al his freindes. And Raguel adiured Tobias, that he should abide with him two weekes. And of al thinges which Raguel possessed, he gaue the halfe part to Tobias, and made this writing, that the halfe part, which was remayning after their decease, should come to the dominion of Tobias.

<hr>

CHAP. IX.

*The Angel Raphael goeth to Gabelus, receiueth the money, and bringeth him to the mariage. 8. They salute ech other, and Gabelus wisheth al prosperitie to yong Tobias, and his spouse.*

<sup>1</sup>THEN Tobias called the Angel to him, whom he thought to be a man, and he sayd to him: Brother Azarias, I pray <sup>2</sup>thee harken to my wordes: <sup>3</sup>If I should deliuer my self to be thy seruant I shal not deserue thy prouidence. Howbeit I besech thee, that thou take vnto thee beastes and seruantes, and goe to Gabelus into Rages the citie of Medes: & render him his handwriting, and receiue of him the money, and de- <sup>4</sup>sire him to come to my mariage. For thyself knowest that my father numbreth the dayes: and if I slacke one day more, <sup>5</sup>his soule is made sorowful. And surely thou seest how

[^1]: To the one familie there were no more children but one sonne, in the other one onlie daugh- ter.

[^2]: The Angel went to the citie it selfe called Rages, Tobias remai- ning in the ter- ritorie or pro- uince therof, with Raguel, which place is also called Ra- ges. c. 3. v. 7.

<aside>The Angel went to the citie it selfe called Rages, Tobias remai- ning in the ter- ritorie or pro- uince therof, with Raguel, which place is also called Ra- ges. c. 3. v. 7.</aside>