---
path: "E:\\Documents\\drb\\book_1\\png\\1078.png"
input_tokens: 2270
output_tokens: 820
elapsed_time_s: 16.640922299999744
approx_cost_usd: 0.019110000000000002
manual_edit: false
---
ESTHER.

THE great king Artaxerxes, from India to Æthiopia to the dukes and princes of an hundred twentie seuen prouinces, which obey our commandment, sendeth greeting. <sup>2</sup> Manie haue abused vnto pride the goodnes of princes, and the honour, that hath beene bestowed vpon them: <sup>3</sup> and they do not only endeuour to oppresse the kings subiectes, but not bearing the glorie that is geuen them, they worke treason against them that gaue it. <sup>4</sup> Neither are they content not to geue thankes for the benefites, and to violate in them selues the lawes of humanitie, but they thincke they can escape the sentence of God also who seeth al things. <sup>5</sup> And they haue burst forth into so great madnes, that such as obserue diligently the offices committed vnto them, and do al thinges so that they are worthie of al mens prayse, them they endeuour to ouerthrow by subtil meanes of lies, <sup>6</sup> whiles with craftie fraude they deceiue the simple eares of princes, and esteeming others by their owne nature. <sup>7</sup> Which thing is proued both out of old histories, and by these thinges, which are done daily, how by the euil suggestions of certaine men the enterprises of kinges are depraued. <sup>8</sup> Wherefore we must prouide for the peace of al prouinces. <sup>9</sup> Neither must you thincke, if we commaund diuers things, that it cometh of the lightnessse of our mind, but that we geue sentence according to the qualitie & necessitie of times, as the profite of the common wealth requireth <sup>10</sup> And that you may more plainly vnderstand, that which we say, Aman the sonne of Amadathi, both in mind and countrie a Macedonian, and an aliene from the Persians bloud, and with his cru-ltie stayning our pietie, was receiued of vs a stranger: <sup>11</sup> and found our humanitie so great, towardes him, that he was called our father, and was adored of al second after the king: <sup>12</sup> who was puft vp with so great swelling of arrogancie, that he went about to depriue vs of kingdom and life. <sup>13</sup> For by certaine new deuises and not heard of before he hath sought to kil Mardocheus, by whose fidelitie and benefittes we liue, and Esther the felow of our kingdom with al their nation: <sup>14</sup> thincking this that they being slayne, he might worke treason to our solitarines, and might transferre the kingdom of the Persians to the Macedonians <sup>15</sup> But we haue found the Iewes, which were by that most wicked of men appoynted to be slayne, in no fault at al, but contrariwise vsing iust lawes, <sup>16</sup> and the children of the highest and

[^1]: Act. 13. v. 5.

<aside>At last this king saw his owne errour in beleuing one false counseller ouer much.</aside>