---
path: "E:\\Documents\\drb\\book_1\\png\\1107.png"
input_tokens: 2270
output_tokens: 980
elapsed_time_s: 16.827269900001586
approx_cost_usd: 0.02151
manual_edit: false
---
<sup>17</sup> were taken away before their time, and a flood hath overthrowen their foundation: Who sayst to God: Depart from vs: and as though the Omnipotent could do nothing, they esteemed him: <sup>18</sup> Whereas he had filled their houses with good things, whose sentence be far from me. <sup>19</sup> The iust shal see, and shal reioyce, and the innocent man shal skorne them <sup>20</sup> Is not their exaltation cut downe, and hath not fire deuoured the remnantes of them? <sup>21</sup> Agree thou therfore to him, and haue peace: and by these thinges thou shalt haue the best fruites, <sup>22</sup> Receiue the law of his mouth, and put his wordes in thy hart. <sup>23</sup> If thou wilt returne to the Omnipotent, thou shalt be builded vp, and shalt make iniquitie far from thy tabernacle. <sup>24</sup> He shal geue for earth flint, and for flint torrentes of gold. <sup>25</sup> And the Omnipotent shal be agaynst thine enemies, & siluer shal be heaped together vnto thee. <sup>26</sup> Then shalt thou abound in delightes vpon the Omnipoten, and shalt lift vp thy face to God. <sup>27</sup> Thou shalt aske him, and he wil heare thee, and thou shal pay thy vowes. <sup>28</sup> Thou shalt decree a thing, and it shal come to thee, and light shal shine in thy waies. <sup>29</sup> For who wil be humbled, shal be in glorie: and he that wil bow downe his eies, he shal be saued. <sup>30</sup> The innocent shal be saued, but he shal be saued in the cleannesse of his handes.

<hr>

CHAP. XXIII.

*Iob exposeth helpes and sentence of God, 6. with iust feares, yet with good conscience maintaineth his owne innocencie.*

<sup>1</sup> BVT Iob answering, sayd: <sup>2</sup> Now also my talke is in bitternesse, and the hand of my plague is aggrauated vpon my mourning. <sup>3</sup> Who wil grant me that I may know and find him and come euen to his throne? <sup>4</sup> I wil set iudgement before him, and wil fil my mouth with accusations. <sup>5</sup> That I may know the wordes, that he wil answer me, and vnderstand what he wil speake to me. <sup>6</sup> I wil not that he contend with me with much strength, nor that he oppresse me with the weight of his greatnes. <sup>7</sup> Let him propose equitie against me, and my iudgement shal come to victorie. <sup>8</sup> If I shal goe to the East, he appeareth not: if to the West, I shal not vnderstand him. <sup>9</sup> If to the left hand, what shal I doe? I shal not apprehend him: if I turne my self to the right hand, I shal not see him. <sup>10</sup> But he knoweth my way, & hath proued

<aside>Bitterchas-tised house Iob also with the error of the Ægyp-tians, that God hath no proui dence of men in this world.</aside>

[^1]: So some heretikes in their phrenesie accuse Catho-liques of con-demned here-sies.

[^2]: Whiles he expected some com-fort of his frendes, they stil afflicted him more and more, therfore he turneth to God with fuller confi-dence and in-tegritie.