---
path: "E:\\Documents\\drb\\book_1\\png\\583.png"
input_tokens: 2270
output_tokens: 858
elapsed_time_s: 17.556224800000432
approx_cost_usd: 0.019680000000000003
manual_edit: false
---
<sup>7</sup> whence shal they take wiues? For we haue al sworne in common, that we wil not geue our daughters to them. <sup>8</sup> Therfore they said: Who is there of al the tribes of Israel, that went not vp to our Lord into Maspha? And behold the inhabitantes of Iabes Galaad were found not to haue bene in that armie. (<sup>9</sup> At that time also when they were in Silo, none of them was found there.) <sup>10</sup> They sent therfore ten thousand the strongest men, and commanded them: Goe, and strike the inhabitantes of Iabes Galaad in the edge of the sword, as wel their wiues as their litle ones. <sup>11</sup> And this shal be it which you shal obserue: Al of the male kinde, and wemen, that haue knowen men, kil ye, but the virgins reserue. <sup>12</sup> And there were found of Iabes Galaad foure hundred virgins, that knew not mans bedde, and they brought them to the campe in Silo, into the Land of Chanaan. <sup>13</sup> And they sent messengers to the children of Beniamin, that were in Rocke Remmon, and commanded them that they should receiue them in peace. <sup>14</sup> And the children of Beniamin came at that time, and there were geuen vnto them wiues of the daughters of Iabes Galaad: but others they found not, which they might geue them in like maner. <sup>15</sup> And al Israel was very sorie, and repented for the killing of one tribe out of Israel. <sup>16</sup> And the ancientes said: What shal we doe to the rest, that haue not taken wiues? For al the wemen in Beniamin are dead. <sup>17</sup> And we must very carefully, and with great studie prouide, that one tribe be not destroyed out of Israel. <sup>18</sup> For our owne daughters we can not geue them, being bound with an oath and a curse, whereby we said: Cursed be he that shal geue to Beniamin anie of his daughters to wife. <sup>19</sup> And they tooke counsail, and said: Behold there is an anniuersarie solemnitie of our Lord in Silo, which is situate on the North of the citie of Bethel, on the East side of the way, that goeth from Bethel to Sichem, and on the South of the towne of Lebona. <sup>20</sup> And they commanded the children of Beniamin, and said: Goe, and lie hidde in the vineyardes. <sup>21</sup> And when you shal see the daughters of Silo come forth after the maner to lead daunses, issue forth sodenly out of the vineyardes, and catch of them euerie one his wife, and goe into the Land of Beniamin. <sup>22</sup> And when their fathers shal

[^1]: Lest either iustice be ouerthrowne, or mercie too relaxe, with great art of discretion, gouernours must obserua moderation in al affaires, and dissi-pate (as saith the wise man) al euil with their looke. Eccli. 23.

<aside>Beniamin repaired</aside>

<aside>moued with repentance vpon their brother Beniamin</aside>