---
path: "E:\\Documents\\drb\\book_1\\png\\590.png"
input_tokens: 2270
output_tokens: 832
elapsed_time_s: 19.87095610000007
approx_cost_usd: 0.01929
manual_edit: false
---
Rvth.

Ionas, the grandfather of Dauid, 18. Whose genealogie by this occasion is recited, from Phares the sonne of Iudas the patriarch.

<sup>1</sup>Booz therfore went vp to the gate, and sate there. And when he had seene the nigh kinsman passe by, of whom the talke was had before, he said to him: Turne in a litle while, and sitte here: calling him by his name. Who turned in, and sate. <sup>2</sup>And Booz taking ten men of the citie, said to them: Sitte ye here. <sup>3</sup>Who sitting downe, he spake to the nigh kinsman: Noemi, who is returned from the countrie of Moab, wil sel the part of the field belonging to our brother Elimelech. <sup>4</sup>Which I would thee to vnderstand, and would tel thee before al that sitte, and the ancientes of my people. If thou wilt possesse it by the right of nigh kindred: bye, and possesse it. but if it please thee not, tel me the same, that I may know what I ought to doe. For there is no nigh kinsman sauing thee, which art first, and me, who am second. But he answered: I wil bye the field. <sup>5</sup>To whom Booz said: When thou shalt bye the field at the womans hand, thou must take also Ruth the Moabite, which was the wife of the deceased: that thou mayest rayse vp the name of thy kinsman in his inheritance. <sup>6</sup>Who answered: I yeld my right of nigh kindred: for I may not abolish the posteritie of myne owne familie. Doe thou vse my priuiledge, which I professe that I doe willingly forgoe. <sup>7</sup>And this in old time was the maner in Israel betwen kinsmen, that if at any time one yelded to an other his right: that the graunt might be sure, the man put of his shoe, and gaue it to his neighbour. this was a testimonie of yelding in Israel. <sup>8</sup>Booz therfore said to his kinsman: Take of thy shoe. Which immediatly he loosed from his foote. <sup>9</sup>But to the ancientes, and the whole people he said: You are witnesses this day, that I haue purchased al thinges which were Elimelechs; and Chelions and Mahalons, Noemi deliuering them: <sup>10</sup>and haue taken in mariage Ruth the Moabite, the wife of Mahalon, that I may rayse vp the name of the deceased in his inheritance, lest his name be abolished out of his familie and brethren and people. You, I say, are witnesses of this thing. <sup>11</sup>Al the people that was in the gate answered, and the ancientes: We are witnesses: Our Lord make this woman, which entereth into thy house, as Rachel, and Lia, which builded

<aside>Booz calleth his kinsman brother, as Abraham called Lot his brother. Gen. 13. being his Nephew.</aside>

[^1]: See Deut. 25. noting here withal, that the penaltie was lesse, when an other kinsman vndertaking the mariage, the woman was preuented from complayning before the iudge.