---
path: "E:\\Documents\\drb\\book_1\\png\\594.png"
input_tokens: 2270
output_tokens: 916
elapsed_time_s: 19.356571699999737
approx_cost_usd: 0.02055
manual_edit: false
---
tenne children? <sup>7</sup> And Anna arose after she had eaten and drunken in Silo. And Heli the priest sitting vpon a Stoole before the postes of the house of our Lord, <sup>8</sup> wheras Anna had a heauie hart, she praied to our Lord, weeping aboundantly, <sup>9</sup> and she vowed a vowe, saying: O Lord of hostes, if regarding thou wilt behold the affliction of thy seruant, and wilt be mindeful of me, and not forgette thy handmaide, and wilt geue vnto thy seruant a man childe: I wil geue him to our Lord al the daies of his life, & the rasour shal not come vpon his head. <sup>10</sup> And it came to passe, when she multiplied praiers before our Lord, that Heli obserued her mouth. <sup>11</sup> Moreouer Anna spake in her hart, and onlie her lippes moued, and voice there was not heard at al. Heli therfore thought her to be drunke, <sup>12</sup> and sayd to her: How long wilt thou be drunke? digest a litle the wyne, wherwith thou art wette. <sup>13</sup> Anna answering, Not so, quoth she, my lord: for I am an exceeding vnhappie woman, and wine and whatsoeuer may inebriate, I haue not drunke, but I haue powred out my soule in the sight of our Lord. <sup>14</sup> Account not thy handmaide as one of the daughters of Belial: for of the multitude of my sorow and heauines haue I spoken vntil this present. <sup>15</sup> Then Heli saied to her: Goe in peace: and the God of Israel geue thee thy petition, which thou hast asked him. <sup>16</sup> But she sayd: Would God thy handmaide may find grace in thyne eyes. And the woman went on her way, and did eate, and her countenance was no more changed otherwise. <sup>17</sup> And they rose in the morning, and adored before our Lord: and they returned, & came into their house to Ramatha. And Elcana knew Anna his wife: and our Lord remembered her. <sup>18</sup> And it came to passe after a certaine compasse of dayes, Anna conceiued & bare a sonne, and called his name Samuel: because she asked him of our Lord. <sup>19</sup> And Elcana her husband went vp, and al her house, to immolat vnto our Lord the solemne hoste, and his vowe, <sup>20</sup> and Anna went not vp: for she sayd to her husband: I wil not goe til the infant be weaned, and til I may bring him, that he may appeare before the sight of our Lord, and may remayne there continually. <sup>21</sup> And Elcana her husband sayd to her: Doe that which seemeth good to thee, and tarie til thou weane him: and I pray that our Lord fulfil his word. The woman therfore taried, and gaue her sonne sucke, til she remoued him from the milke. <sup>22</sup> And she brought him

<aside>This childe being of the tribe of Leui, though not of Aarons stock, was lawfully vowed to the seruice of the tabernacle, by his parentes during his childhood, but coming to yeares of discretion he was at his owne election to continue, or to depart. If he had bene of anie other tribe, he must haue bene redeemed. Leuit. 27.</aside>

[^1]: Heli. Samue