---
path: "E:\\Documents\\drb\\book_1\\png\\645.png"
input_tokens: 2270
output_tokens: 857
elapsed_time_s: 16.782884399999865
approx_cost_usd: 0.019665000000000002
manual_edit: false
---
not come vnto blood, and hath saued thy hand to thee: and
now be thine enemies as Nabal, and they that seeke euil to
my lord. <sup>27</sup> Wherefore receiue this benediction, which thy
handmaide hath brought to thee my lord: and geue to thy
seruantes that folow thee my lord. <sup>28</sup> Take away the ini-
quitie of thy handmaide: for our Lord making wil make to
my lord a faithful house, because thou my lord doest fight
the battels of our Lord: let not malice therefore be found
in thee al the dayes of thy life. <sup>29</sup> For if a man shal rise, perse-
cuting thee, and seeking thy life, the life of my lord shal be
kept, as in the bundel of the liuing, with our Lord thy God:
Moreouer the life of thine enemies shal be whurled, and in
the violence, and whurle of a sling. <sup>30</sup> When our Lord there-
fore shal doe to thee, my lord, al good thinges, which he hath
spoken concerning thee, and shal constitute thee prince ouer
Israel: <sup>31</sup> this shal not be an occasion of sobbing to thee, and
a scruple of hart to my lord, that thou hast shed innocent
blood, or thy selfe hast reuenged thy selfe: and when our
Lord hath bestowed these benefites vpon my lord, thou shalt
remember thy handmaide. <sup>32</sup> And Dauid sayd to Abigail:
Blessed be our Lord the God of Israel, who hath sent thee this
day to meete me, and blessed be thy speach, <sup>33</sup> and blessed
be thou, which hast stayed me to day, that I might not goe to
blood, and reuenge me with myn owne hand. <sup>34</sup> Otherwise
our Lord liueth the God of Israel, who hath staied me, that
I should not doe thee any euil: vnles thou hadst quickely
come to meete me, there had not remained to Nabal vntil
morning light, any pissing against a wal. <sup>35</sup> And Dauid tooke
of her hand al thinges which she had brought him, and said
to her: Goe peaceable into thy house, behold I haue heard
thy voice, and haue honoured thy face. <sup>36</sup> And Abigail came
to Nabal: and behold he had a feast in his house, as it were
the feast of a king, and Nabals hart was pleasant: for he was
drunke excedingly: and she told him not a word little or great
vntil morning. <sup>37</sup> But early when Nabal had digested his
wine, his wife told him these wordes, and his hart was dead
inwardly, and he became as a stone. <sup>38</sup> And when ten dayes
had passed, our Lord stroke Nabal, and he died. <sup>39</sup> Which
when Dauid had heard that Nabal was dead, he sayd: Blessed
be our Lord, who hath iudged the cause of my reproch at the
hand of Nabal, and hath kept his seruant from euil, and the

<aside>Things tryed are stronger and more secure, then single and loose.</aside>

[^1]: Things tryed are stronger and more secure, then single and loose.