---
path: "E:\\Documents\\drb\\book_1\\png\\648.png"
input_tokens: 2270
output_tokens: 955
elapsed_time_s: 16.896701099999714
approx_cost_usd: 0.021135
manual_edit: false
---
<sup>22</sup>And David answering, said: Behold the kings speare, let one of the kings seruants passe, and take it. <sup>23</sup>And our Lord wil reward euerie one according to his iustice, and fidelitie: for our Lord hath deliuered thee this day into my hand, & I would not extend my hand vpon the annointed of our Lord. <sup>24</sup>And as thy life hath bene magnified to day in myne eies, so be my life magnified in the eies of our Lord, and deliuer he me from al distresse. <sup>25</sup>Saul therefore sayd to Dauid: Blessed art thou my sonne Dauid: and truly doing thou shalt doe, and preuayling thou shalt preuaile. And Dauid went into his way, and Saul returned into his place.

<hr>

CHAP. XXVII.

*Dauid for more securitie goeth againe to Achis king of Geth, 5. obtaineth of him the citie of Siceleg, (6. by which meanes it becometh subiect to the kinges of Iuda) 8. and maketh prayes vpon the enimies of King Achis.*

<sup>1</sup>AND Dauid sayd in his hart: at length I shal fal one day into the handes of Saul: is it not better that I flee, and be saued in the Land of the Philistians, that Saul may despaire, and cease to seeke me in al the coastes of Israel? I wil flee therefore his handes. <sup>2</sup>And Dauid arose, and went himselfe, and the six hundred men with him, to Achis the sonne of Maoch, the King of Geth. <sup>3</sup>And Dauid dwelt with Achis in Geth, he and his men; euerie man & his house, and his two wiues, Achinoam the Iezrahelite, and Abigail the wife of Nabal of Carmel. <sup>4</sup>And it was told Saul that Dauid was fled into Geth, and he added no more to seeke him. <sup>5</sup>And Dauid sayd to Achis: If I haue grace in thy sight, let there a place be geuen me in one of thy cities of this countrie, that I may dwel there: for why abideth thy seruant in the citie of the king, with thee? <sup>6</sup>Achis therefore gaue him in that day Siceleg: for which cause Siceleg became the kinges of Iuda vntil this day. <sup>7</sup>And the number of the daies, that Dauid dwelt in the countrey of the Philistians, was foure monethes. <sup>8</sup>And Dauid went vp, and his men, and draue prayes out of Gessuri, and Gerzi, and from the Amalecites: for these villages were inhabited in the land in old time, as men goe to Sur, as farre as the Land of Ægypt. <sup>9</sup>And Dauid stroke al the land, neither left he anie man or woman: and taking the sheepe & oxen, and asses, & camels, and garments, he returned & came to Achis. <sup>10</sup>And Achis sayd to him: Whom hast thou

<aside>These coun-tries were nei-ther subiect to the Philistiims nor to the Is-raelites, and were also of</aside>

[^1]: Gessuri and Gerzi, and from the Amalecites: for these vil-lages were inhabited in the land in old time, as men goe to Sur, as farre as the Land of Ægypt.