---
path: "E:\\Documents\\drb\\book_1\\png\\657.png"
input_tokens: 2270
output_tokens: 778
elapsed_time_s: 15.595663800000214
approx_cost_usd: 0.01848
manual_edit: false
---
# THE SECOND BOOKE OF SAMVEL, WHICH WE CAL THE SECOND OF KINGES.

## CHAP. I.

*Dauid hearing that Saul and Ionathas are slaine, 11. mourneth with al his familie, weeping and fasting. 13. causeth him to be slaine who affirmed that he had killed king Saul. 18. He traineth vp archers. 19. and inuiteth also al Israel to mourne.*

<sup>1</sup> AND it came to passe, after that Saul was dead, that Dauid returned from the slaughter of Ama-lec, and taryed in Siceleg two dayes. <sup>2</sup> And in the third day there appeared a man coming out of Sauls campe, his garments torne, and sprinkled on the head with dust, and as he came to Dauid, he fel vpon his face, and adored. <sup>3</sup> And Dauid said vnto him: Whence comest thou? Who said to him: I fledde out of the campe of Israel. <sup>4</sup> And Dauid said vnto him: What is the matter that is done? tel me. Who said: The people is fled out of the battel, and many of the people are ouerthrowen and dead: yea Saul also and Ionathas his sonne are dead. <sup>5</sup> And Dauid said to the yong man that told him: How knowest thou that Saul is dead, and Ionathas his sonne? <sup>6</sup> And the young man that told him, sayd: By chance I came into mount Gelboe, and Saul leaned vpon his speare: moreouer the chariots and horsemen approched vnto him, <sup>7</sup> and turning backward, and seing me he called. To whom when I had answered, here I am: <sup>8</sup> he said to me: Who art thou? And I said to him: I am an Amalecite. <sup>9</sup> And he said to me: Stand vpon me, and kil me: because anguishes hold me, and as yet al my life is in me. <sup>10</sup> And standing vpon him, I killed him: for I knewe that he could not liue after the fal: and I tooke the Diademe that was on his head, & the bracelette from his arme, and haue brought to thee my lord hither. <sup>11</sup> And Dauid taking his garments rent them, and al the men that were with him, <sup>12</sup> and they mourned, and wept, and fasted vntil euening vpon Saul and vpon Ionathas his sonne, and vpon the people of our

<aside>He fained al this, thinck-ing to get fa-uour: (for Saul killed himself, li. 1. ch. 31.) but Da-uid punished him, as such a crime deser-ued. v. 15.</aside>

<aside>Exequies of Saul obserued with mour-</aside>

[^1]: Hhhh 3