---
path: "E:\\Documents\\drb\\book_1\\png\\679.png"
input_tokens: 2270
output_tokens: 777
elapsed_time_s: 14.474212600000202
approx_cost_usd: 0.018465000000000002
manual_edit: false
---
<sup>15</sup> force ravished her, and lay with her. And Amnon hated her with exceeding great hatred: so that the hatred was greater, wherewith he hated her, then the love with the which before he loved her. And Amnon said to her: Arise, and <sup>16</sup> goe. Who answered him: This evil, which now thou doest against me expelling me, is greater then that which thou didst <sup>17</sup> before. And he would not heare her: but calling the servant, that ministred to him, he said: Thrust this woman out <sup>18</sup> from me: and shut the doore after her. Who was clothed with a garment downe to the foote: for the kinges daughters that were virgins, used such kinde of garmentes. His servant <sup>19</sup> therfore thrust her out: and shut the doore after her. Who sprinkling ashes on her head, renting her long garment, and <sup>20</sup> her handes vpon her head, went going on, and crying. And Absalon her brother sayd to her: hath Amnon thy brother lyen with thee? but now sister hold thy peace, he is thy brother: neither afflict thou thy hart for this thing. Thamar therefore taryed pyning in the house of Absalom her brother. <sup>21</sup> And when David the king had heard these wordes, <sup>22</sup> he was greeved excedingly. Moreover Absalom spake not to Amnon neither good nor evil: for Absalom hated Amnon <sup>23</sup> because he had ravished Thamar his sister. And it came to passe after the space of two yeares, that the sheepe of Absalom were shorne in Baalhasor, which is beside Ephraim: and <sup>24</sup> Absalom called al the kinges sonnes, and he came to the king, and said to him: Behold thy servantes sheepe are to be shorne: Let the king, I pray, with his servantes come to his <sup>25</sup> servant. And the king said to Absalom: Doe not so my sonne, request not that we come al, & charge thee. And when he was earnest with him, & he would not goe, he blessed him: <sup>26</sup> And Absalom said: If thou wilt not come, at the least let Amnon my brother, I beseech thee, come with vs. And the king <sup>27</sup> said to him: It is not necessary that he goe with thee. Absalom therefore was earnest with him, and he let Amnon and al the kinges sonnes goe with him. And Absalom made a feast <sup>28</sup> as it were the feast of a king. And Absalom had commanded his servantes, saying: Marke when Amnon shal be drunke with wine, and I shal say to you: Strike him, and kil him, feare not: for it is I that command you: take courage, <sup>29</sup> and play the valiant men. Therefore the servantes of Absalom did against Amnon, as Absalom had commanded them.

[^1]: David.

<hr>