---
path: "E:\\Documents\\drb\\book_1\\png\\685.png"
input_tokens: 2270
output_tokens: 874
elapsed_time_s: 18.606088100000285
approx_cost_usd: 0.01992
manual_edit: false
---
<sup>25</sup> passed, which was come forth of the citie. And the king sayd to Sadoc: Cary backe the Arke of God into the citie: if I shal finde grace in the sight of my Lord, he wil bring me a-<sup>26</sup>gayne, and wil show me it, and his tabernacle. But if he shal say to me: Thou pleasest me not: I am readie, let him doe <sup>27</sup>that which is good before him. And the king sayd to Sadoc the priest: O seer returne into the citie in peace: and Achi-maas thy sonne, and Ionathas the sonne of Abiathar, your <sup>28</sup>two sonnes let them be with you. Behold I wil be hid in the champayne of the desert, til there come word from you <sup>29</sup>aduertising me. Sadoc therefore and Abiathar caryed backe the Arke of God into Ierusalem: and they taried there. <sup>30</sup>Moreouer Dauid went vp mount Oliuet, climbing & weeping, going bare foote, and his head couered, yea and al the people which was with him, their head couered went vp, <sup>31</sup>weeping. And it was told Dauid that Achitophel also was in the conspiracie with Absalom, and Dauid sayd: Infatuate <sup>32</sup>o Lord I besech thee, the counsel of Achitophel. And when Dauid went vp to the toppe of the mount, wherein he would adore our Lord, behold there mette him Chusai the Ara-<sup>33</sup>chite, his garment rent and his head ful of earth. And Da-uid sayd to him: If thou come with me, thou shalt be a bur-<sup>34</sup>den to me: but if thou returne into the citie, and wilt say to Absalom: I am thy seruant, o king: as I haue beene thy fathers seruant, so I wil be thy seruant: thou shalt defeate the <sup>35</sup>counsel of Achitophel. And thou hast with thee Sadoch, and Abiathar the priests: and euery word whatsoeuer thou shalt heare from out of the kinges house, thou shalt tel Sadoc, <sup>36</sup>and Abiathar the priestes. And there are with them their two sonnes Achimaas the sonne of Sadoc, and Ionathas the sonne of Abiathar: and you shal send by them vnto me euery <sup>37</sup>word whatsoeuer you shal heare. Chusai therefore the frend of Dauid coming into the citie, Absalom also entred into Ierusalem.

<hr>

CHAP. XVI.

*Siba bringing victuals obtaineth (by false suggestion) his maisters Miphiboseths enheritance. 5. Semei curseth, and throweth stones at the king, who neuertheles forbiddeth to kil him. 15. Absalom entreth into Hierusalem, 16. interteyneth Chusai, 20. and by Achitophels aduise lieth with his fathers concubines.*

[^1]: He couered his head that he might not be seene to weepe, lest he should disco-rage the peo-ple. neuertheles the people also wept, and likewise co-uered their heades.