---
path: "E:\\Documents\\drb\\book_1\\png\\773.png"
input_tokens: 2270
output_tokens: 828
elapsed_time_s: 16.9326604000004
approx_cost_usd: 0.019229999999999997
manual_edit: false
---
of Israel Achab.

Thus saith our Lord: Because the Syrians haue said: The Lord is God of the mountaines, and is not God of the Valleis: I wil geue al this great multitude into thy hand, and<sup>28</sup> you shal know that I am the Lord.<sup>29</sup> And seuen dayes did these, and they direct their armies one against the other, and in the seuenth day was the battel fought: and the children of Israel stroke of the Syrians an hundred thousand footemen in one day.<sup>30</sup> And they that remained in Aphec, fled into the citie: and the wal fel vpon seuen and twentie thousand men, that were left. Moreouer Benadad fleing entered the citie, into a chamber that was within a chamber,<sup>31</sup> and his seruantes said to him: Behold, we haue heard that the kinges of the house of Israel are merciful: Let vs therfore put sackeclothes on our loynes, and cordes on our heades, and goe forth to the king of Israel: perhaps he wil saue our liues.<sup>32</sup> They girded their loines with sackclothes, and put cordes on their heades, and came to the king of Israel, and said to him: Thy seruant saith: Let my soule liue, I besech thee. And he said: If he be yet aliue he is my brother.<sup>33</sup> Which the men tooke for good lucke: and in hast caught the word of his mouth, and said: Thy brother Benadad. And he said to them: Goe and bring him to me. Benadad therfore came out to him, and he lifted him vp into his chariote.<sup>34</sup> Who said to him: The cities which my father tooke from thy father, I wil render: doe thou make thee streetes in Damascus, as my father made in Samaria, and I confederate wil depart from thee. He therfore made a league, and dimissed him.<sup>35</sup> Then a certaine man of the children of the prophetes sayd to his felow in the word of our Lord: Strike me. But he would not strike.<sup>36</sup> To whom he said: Because thou wouldest not heare the word of our Lord, behold thou shalt depart from me, and a lion shal strike thee. And when he was departed a litle from him, a lyon found him, and slew him.<sup>37</sup> But finding also an other man, he said to him: Strike me. Who stroke him, and wounded him.<sup>38</sup> The prophete therfore went, and mette the king in the way, and with sprinkling of dust changed his face and his eies.<sup>39</sup> And when the king passed by, he cried to the king, and said: Thy seruant went forth to fight hand strokes: and when a certaine man was fled, one brought him to me, and said: Keepe this man: who if he shal slippe away, thy life shal be for his life, or thou shalt pay a talent of siluer.<sup>40</sup> And

[^1]: Manie victo­ries and other benefites were bestowed vp­on Achab, to make him knowe God: but he cõtem­ning them al remained in his impietie, and finally was slaine. ch. 22. v. 38.