---
path: "E:\\Documents\\drb\\book_1\\png\\874.png"
input_tokens: 2270
output_tokens: 865
elapsed_time_s: 16.182351399999114
approx_cost_usd: 0.019785
manual_edit: false
---
<aside>King Dauid was not with out faith, nor hope, and yet was contaminate with iniquitie, from which he prayed to be deliuered.</aside>

Israel. And Dauid sayd to God: I haue sinned excedingly <sup>8</sup> in that I would doe this: I beseech thee take away the iniquitie of thy seruant, because I haue done foolishly. <sup>9</sup> And our Lord spake to Gad the Seer of Dauid, saying: <sup>10</sup> Goe, and speake to Dauid, and tel him: Thus sayth our Lord: I geue thee the choyse of three thinges, choose one which thou wilt, and I wil doe it to thee. <sup>11</sup> And when Gad was come to Dauid, he sayd to him: Thus sayth our Lord: Choose which thou wilt: <sup>12</sup> either three yeares famine: or three monethes to flee from thine enemies, and not to be able to escape their sword: or three dayes the sword of our Lord, and pestilence to be in the land, and the Angel of our Lord to kil in al the costes of Israel: now therfore see what I shal answer him, that sent me. <sup>13</sup> And Dauid sayd to Gad: I am on euerie side in great distresse: but it is better, that I fal into the handes of our Lord, because his mercies be manie, then into the handes of men. <sup>14</sup> Our Lord therfore sent the pestilence in Israel. and there fel of Israel seuentie thousand men. <sup>15</sup> He sent also an Angel into Ierusalem, to strike it: and when it was striken, our Lord saw, and had compassion vpon the greatnesse of the euil: and commanded the Angel, that smote: It is sufficient, now let thy hand cease. Moreouer the Angel of our Lord stoode beside the floore of Ornan the Iebuseite. <sup>16</sup> And Dauid lifting vp his eies, saw the Angel of our Lord standing betwen heauen and earth, and a sword drawen in his hand, turned agaynst Ierusalem: & they fel as wel he as the ancientes clothed in heare clothes, flatte on the earth. <sup>17</sup> And Dauid sayd to God: Am not I he, that commanded the people to be numbred? It is I that haue sinned: it is I that haue done the euil: this flocke what hath it deserued? Lord my God let thy hand be turned I beseech thee vpon me, and vpon my fathers house: and let not thy people be striken <sup>18</sup> And the Angel of our Lord commanded Gad to tel Dauid, that he should goe vp, and build an altar to our Lord God in the floore of Ornan the Iebuseite. <sup>19</sup> Dauid therfore went vp according to the word of Gad, which he had spoken to him in the name of our Lord. <sup>20</sup> Moreouer Ornan when he had looked vp, and sene the Angel, and his foure sonnes with him, they hid themselues: for at that time he threshed wheat in the floore. <sup>21</sup> Therfore when Dauid came to Ornan, Ornan beheld him, & went forth to mete him out of the floore, and adored him flatte on the ground.