---
path: "E:\\Documents\\drb\\book_1\\png\\917.png"
input_tokens: 2270
output_tokens: 876
elapsed_time_s: 15.246599500000476
approx_cost_usd: 0.019950000000000002
manual_edit: false
---
<sup>14</sup> me, that will I speake. He therefore came to the king. To whom the king sayd: Micheas, shal we goe into Ramoth Galaad to fight, or sit stil? To whom he answered: Goe ye vp: for al thinges shal fal out prosperous, and the enemies shal be deliuered into your handes. <sup>15</sup> And the king sayd: Agayne, and agayne I adiure thee, that thou speake not to me, but that which is true in the name of our Lord. <sup>16</sup> But he sayd: I saw al Israel disperst in the mountaynes, as sheepe without a shepheard: and our Lord sayd: These haue no maisters: let euerie man returne into his house in peace. <sup>17</sup> And the king of Israel sayd to Iosaphat: did I not tel thee that this man did not prophecie me anie good, but these thinges that be euil? <sup>18</sup> But he sayd: Heare ye therfore the word of our Lord: I saw our Lord sitting in his throne, and al the host of heauen assisting him on the right hand and on the left. <sup>19</sup> And our Lord sayd: who shal deceiue Achab the king of Israel, that he may goe vp and fal in Ramoth Galaad. And when one sayd in this maner, and an other otherwise: <sup>20</sup> there came forth a spirit, and stood before our Lord, and sayd: I wil deceiue him. To whom our Lord sayd: wherin wilt thou deceiue him. <sup>21</sup> But he answered: I wil goe forth, and wil be a lying spirit in the mouth of al his prophetes. And our Lord sayd: Thou shalt deceiue, and shalt preuaile: goe forth, and doe so. <sup>22</sup> Now therfore, behold our Lord hath geuen the spirit of lying in the mouth of al thy prophetes, and our Lord hath spoken of thee euil thinges. <sup>23</sup> And Sedecias the sonne of Chanaana came, and stroke the cheeke of Micheas, and sayd: Which way passed the spirit of our Lord from me, that it should speake to thee. <sup>24</sup> And Micheas sayd: Thou thy self shalt see in that day, when thou shalt enter into chamber out of chamber, to be hid. <sup>25</sup> And the king of Israel commanded, saying: Take Micheas, and lead him to Amon the gouernour of the citie, and to Ioab the sonne of Amelech. <sup>26</sup> And you shal say: Thus sayth the king: Cast this felow into prison, and giue him a litle bread, and a litle water, til I returne in peace. <sup>27</sup> And Micheas sayd: If thou returne in peace, our Lord hath not spoken in me, & he sayd: Heare al ye peoples. <sup>28</sup> Therefore the king of Israel, and Iosaphat the king of Iuda <sup>29</sup> went vp into Ramoth Galaad. And the king of Israel sayd to Iosaphat: I wil change my habite, and so I wil goe to the fight, but be thou clothed with thine owne garmentes. And

[^1]: See Annota-tion. 3 Reg. 22. v. 15.