---
path: "E:\\Documents\\drb\\book_1\\png\\127.png"
input_tokens: 2270
output_tokens: 908
elapsed_time_s: 16.749002700000013
approx_cost_usd: 0.02043
manual_edit: false
---
# Genesis

## Chapter XXXIII.

Jacob seeing Esau come with a great troupe of men, feareth harme, but is most curteously entertained by him. 10. He hardly persuadeth Esau to take giftes, 13. and to returne home. 17. So Jacob coming by Socoth to Salem, there byeth a field, pitcheth his tents, and erecteth an Altar.

<sup>1</sup> And Jacob lifting vp his eyes, saw Esau coming, and with him foure hundred men: and he diuided the children of Lia and of Rachel, and of the two handmaides: <sup>2</sup> and he put both the handmaides & their children foremoſt: and Lia, and her children in the ſecond place: and Rachel, and Ioſeph laſt. <sup>3</sup> And himſelfe going foreward adored proſtrate to the grownd ſeuen times, vntil his brother came nere. <sup>4</sup> Eſau therfore running to mete his brother, embraced him: and claſping him faſt about the necke, and kiſſing him wept. <sup>5</sup> And caſting vp his eyes, he ſaw the women and their litle ones, and ſaid: What meane theſe? And do they perteyne to thee? He anſwered: They are the litle ones which God hath geuen to me thy ſeruant. <sup>6</sup> And the handmaides and their children coming nere, bowed themſelues. <sup>7</sup> Lia alſo with her children came nere: and when they had adored in like maner, laſt Ioſeph and Rachel adored. <sup>8</sup> And Eſau ſaid: What are the troupes that I did mete? He anſwered: That I might find grace before my lord. <sup>9</sup> But he ſaid: I haue plentie, my brother, be thy things to thy ſelfe. <sup>10</sup> And Iacob ſaid: Do not ſo I beſech thee, but if I haue found grace in thin eyes, take a litle preſent at my hands: for ſo haue I ſeene thy face, as if I ſhould haue ſeene <sup>11</sup> the countenance of God: be gracious to me, and take the bleſſing, which I haue brought thee, and which God hath geuen me, who geueth al thinges. Scarſe at his brothers great inſtance, taking it, <sup>12</sup> he ſaid: Let vs march on toge- <sup>13</sup> ther, and I wil accompanie thee in thy iourney. And Iacob ſaid: My lord thou knoweſt that I haue with me litle ones, and ſheepe, and kine with young: which if I cauſe to ouerlabour themſelues in going, in one day al the flockes <sup>14</sup> wil die. It may pleaſe my lord to goe before his ſeruant: and I wil folow ſoftly after him, as I ſhal ſee my litle ones

<aside>:: Jacob ſeing Gods hand in this change of his brothers mind, not of flatterie, but ſincerely acknowledged his benignities, as Gods countenance towards him.</aside>

[^1]: Jacob ſeing Gods hand in this change of his brothers mind, not of flatterie, but ſincerely acknowledged his benignities, as Gods countenance towards him.