---
path: "E:\Documents\drb\book_1\jpg\1582 Douai Rheims Douay Rheims First Edition  1 of 3 1609 Old Testament.pdf-157.jpg"
input_tokens: 2409
output_tokens: 874
elapsed_time_s: 16.41
approx_cost_usd: 0.020
manual_edit: false
---
GENESIS.

<sup>8</sup> serue vpon the earth, and may haue victuals to liue. Not by your counsail, but by the wil of God was I sent hither: who hath made me as it were a father to Pharao, and lord of his whole house, and prince in al the land of Ægypt. <sup>9</sup> Make hast and goe ye vp to my father, and you shal say to him: Thy sonne Ioseph willeth thus: God hath made me lord of the whole land of Ægypt: come downe to me, tary not. <sup>10</sup> And thou shalt dwel in the land of Gessen: and thou shalt be nere me thou and thy sonnes, and thy sonnes children, thy shepe, and thy heardes, and al things that thou dost possesse. <sup>11</sup> And there I wil fede thee (for yet there are fiue yeares of famine remaining) lest both thou perish, and thy house, & al things that thou dost possesse. <sup>12</sup> Behold, your eyes, and the eyes of my brother Beniamin doe see, that it is my mouth that speaketh vnto you. <sup>13</sup> Report to my father my whole glorie and al things that you haue seene in Ægypt: make hast, and bring him to me. <sup>14</sup> And falling vpon the neck of his brother Beniamin, embracing him he wept: he also in like maner weeping vpon his neck. <sup>15</sup> And Ioseph kissed al his brethren, and wept vpon euerie one: after which things they were bold to speake vnto him. <sup>16</sup> And it was heard of, and very famously reported abrode in the kings courte: The brethren of Ioseph are come: and Pharao was glad, and al his familie. <sup>17</sup> And he spake to Ioseph that he should command his brethren, saying: Loading your beasts goe into the Land of Chanaan, <sup>18</sup> and take thence your father and kinne, and come to me: and I wil geue you al the good things of Ægypt, that you may eate the marow of the land. <sup>19</sup> Geue commandment also that they take waynes out of the land of Ægypt, for the cariage of their litle ones and wyues: and say: Take vp your father, and make hast to come with speede. <sup>20</sup> Neither doe you leaue any thing of your houshold stuffe: for al the riches of Ægypt, shal be yours. <sup>21</sup> And the sonnes of Israel did as it was commanded them. To whom Ioseph gaue waynes according to Pharaos commandment: and victuals for the way. <sup>22</sup> He bad also to be brought vp for euery one two robes: but to Beniamin he gaue three hundred peeces of siluer with fiue robes of the best: <sup>23</sup> sending to his father as much money and rayment, adding besides them he asses that should carie of al the riches of Ægypt, and as many she asses, carying wheat for the iourney and bread. <sup>24</sup> Ther-

[^1]: :: Iosephs prudence proceeding before he made him selfe knowen to his brethren and them to Pharao, procured al this ioy & fauour towards them in Ægypt.