---
path: "E:\Documents\drb\book_1\jpg\1582 Douai Rheims Douay Rheims First Edition  1 of 3 1609 Old Testament.pdf-149.jpg"
input_tokens: 2409
output_tokens: 829
elapsed_time_s: 15.77
approx_cost_usd: 0.020
manual_edit: false
---
GENESIS.

<sup>10</sup> weaker parts of the land you are come. Who said: It is not so, my lord, but thy servants are come to bye victuals. <sup>11</sup> We are al the sonnes of one man: we are come as men of peace, neither do thy servants goe about anie euil. <sup>12</sup> To whom he answered: It is otherwise: you came to consider the undefensed partes of this land. <sup>13</sup> But they: We thy servants, say they, are twelve brethren, the sonnes of one man in the Land of Chanaan: the youngest is with our father, the other is not liuing. <sup>14</sup> This is it, quoth he, that I said: <sup>15</sup> You are spies. Now presently I wil take a trial of you: by the health of Pharao you shal not depart hence, vntil your youngest brother do come. <sup>16</sup> Send you one of you to bring him: and you shal be in prison, til the thinges be proued which you haue said, whether they be true or false: otherwise by the health of Pharao you are spies. <sup>17</sup> Therfore he put them in prison three dayes. <sup>18</sup> And the third day bringing them out of prison, he said: Doe as I haue said, and you shal liue: for I feare God. <sup>19</sup> If you be men of peace, let one of your brethren be bounde in prison: and goe ye your wayes, and carie the corne that you haue bought, vnto your houses, <sup>20</sup> and bring your youngest brother to me, that I may proue your sayings to be true, and that you die not. They did as he had said, <sup>21</sup> and they talked one to another: Worthely do we suffer these thinges, because we haue sinned against our brother, seing the distresse of his soule, whilest he besought vs, and we heard not: therfore is this tribulation come vpon vs. <sup>22</sup> Among whom Ruben one of them, said: Why, did not I say to you: Sinne not against the boy: and you heard me not? Loe his blood is required. <sup>23</sup> And they knew not that Ioseph vnderstood: <sup>24</sup> because he spake to them by an interpreter. And he turned away himselfe a litle while, and wept: and returning <sup>25</sup> he spake to them. And taking Simeon, and binding him in their presence, he commanded his servants that they should fil vp their sackes with wheat, and put euerie mans money againe in their bagges, geuing them besides for to eate on the way: who did so. <sup>26</sup> But they carying their corne <sup>27</sup> vpon their asses, tooke their iourney. And one of them opening his sacke, to geue his beast prouender in the inne, <sup>28</sup> beholding the money in the sackes mouth, he said to his brethren: My money is geuen me againe, behold it is in the sacke.

<aside>If these things which ye say be proued false, ye are to be held as spies, for your lying.</aside>

[^1]: Aug. q 139. super Gen.