---
path: "E:\\Documents\\drb\\book_1\\png\\258.png"
input_tokens: 2270
output_tokens: 772
elapsed_time_s: 13.701714000000154
approx_cost_usd: 0.01839
manual_edit: false
---
<sup>22</sup> when thou hast taken of the bloud that is vpon the Altar, and of the oile of vnction, thou shalt sprinkle Aaron and his vesture, his sonnes & their vestmentes. And after they and their vestmentes are consecrated, <sup>22</sup> thou shalt take the fatte of the ramme, and the tayle & the talow, that couereth the lunges, and the caule of the liuer, and the two kidneies, and the fatte, that is vpon them, and the right shoulder, because it is the ramme of consecration: <sup>23</sup> and a peece of one loafe, a cake tempered with oile, a wafer out of the basket of azymes, which is sette in the sight of the Lord: <sup>24</sup> and thou shalt put al vpon the handes of Aaron and of his sonnes, and shalt sanctifie them eleuating before the Lord. <sup>25</sup> And thou shalt take al from their handes: and shalt burne them vpon the Altar for an holocauste, a most sweete sauour in the sight of the Lord, because it is his oblation. <sup>26</sup> Thou shalt take also the brest of the ramme, wherewith Aaron was consecrated, and eleuating it thou shalt sanctifie it before the Lord, and it shal fal to thy part. <sup>27</sup> And thou shalt sanctifie both the consecrated brest, and the shoulder that thou didst separate of the ramme, <sup>28</sup> wherewith Aaron was consecrated and his sonnes, and they shal fal to Aarons part and his sonnes by a perpetual right from the children of Israel: because they are the primitiues and beginninges of their pacifique victimes which they offer to the Lord. <sup>29</sup> And the holie vesture, which Aaron shal vse, his sonnes shal haue after him, that they may be anoynted, and their handes consecrated in it. <sup>30</sup> He of his sonnes that shal be appoynted high priest in his steede, & that shal enter into the tabernacle of testimonie to minister in the Sanctuarie, shal weare it seuen dayes. <sup>31</sup> And thou shalt take the ramme of the consecration, and shalt boyle the flesh therof in a holie place: <sup>32</sup> which Aaron shal eate and his sonnes. The loaues also, that are in the basket, they shal eate in the entrie of the tabernacle of testimonie, <sup>33</sup> that it may be a placable sacrifice, and the handes of the offerers may be sanctified. A stranger shal not eate of them, because they are holie. <sup>34</sup> And if there remaine of the consecrated flesh, or of the bread til the morning, thou shalt burne the remaynes with fire: they shal not be eaten, because they are sanctified. <sup>35</sup> Al, that I haue commanded thee, thou shalt doe vpon Aaron and his sonnes. Seuen dayes shalt thou consecrate their