---
path: "E:\\Documents\\drb\\book_1\\png\\356.png"
input_tokens: 2270
output_tokens: 861
elapsed_time_s: 16.220339000000152
approx_cost_usd: 0.019725
manual_edit: false
---
# NVMERI.

## CHAP. VII.

In dedication of the Tabernacle, the princes of the twelue tribes offer iointly six waines, and twelue oxen. 11. Then euerie prince seueral daies make other oblations. 89. And God speaketh to Moyses from the Propitiatorie.

<sup>1</sup>AND it came to passe in the day that Moyses finished the tabernacle, and erected it: he anoynted also and sanctified it with al the vessel therof, the altar likewise and al the vessel therof. <sup>2</sup>The princes of Israel and the heades of the families, that were in euerie tribe, and the rulers of them, that had bene numbered, offered <sup>3</sup>giftes before our Lord six waines couered, with twelue oxen. Two princes offered one waine, and euerie man one oxe and they offered them before the tabernacle. <sup>4</sup>And our Lord said to Moyses: <sup>5</sup>Take them of their handes to serue in the ministerie of the tabernacle, and thou shalt deliuer them to the Leuites according to the order of their ministerie. <sup>6</sup>When Moyses therfore had taken the waines and the oxen, he deliuered them to the Leuites. <sup>7</sup>Two waines and foure oxen he gaue to the sonnes of Gerson, according to that which was necessarie for them. <sup>8</sup>the other foure waines, and the eight oxen he gaue to the sonnes of Merari according to their offices and seruice, vnder the hand of Ithamar the sonne of Aaron the priest. <sup>9</sup>But to the sonnes of Caath he gaue not waines and oxen: because they serue in the sanctuarie, and carie their burdens vpon their owne shoulders. <sup>10</sup>The princes therefore offered vnto the dedication of the altar, the daie wherin it was anoynted, their oblation before the altar. <sup>11</sup>And our Lord said to Moyses: Let the princes one and one euerie day offer their giftes vnto the dedication of the altar. <sup>12</sup>The first day Nahasson the sonne of Aminadab of the tribe of Iuda offered his oblation: <sup>13</sup>and there were in it a siluer plate of an hundred and thirtie sicles weight, a phial of siluer hauing seuentie sicles according to the weight of the Sanctuarie, both ful of flower tempered with oyle for a sacrifice: <sup>14</sup>a litle morter of ten sicles of gold ful of incense: <sup>15</sup>an oxe out of the hearde, and a ramme, and a lambe of a yeare old for an holocaust: <sup>16</sup>and a bucke goat for sinne: <sup>17</sup>and for a sacrifice of pacifiques, two oxen, fiue rammes, fiue bucke goates, fiue lambes of a yeare old. this is the oblation of Nahasson the sonne of Aminadab. <sup>18</sup>The second

<aside>Of great reuerence they caried the arke, and propitiatorie, and the holie vessel ordinarily vpon their shoulders, yet the same were sometimes caried on wai- nes. 2. Reg. 6.</aside>

[^1]: Num. 4.